ROTATING-PARTNER ROUND ROBIN FORMAT

A rotating partner round robin is a tournament format in which players partner 
with every other player once (i.e. they "rotate" through partners) and oppose 
every other player twice. This is a highly social format but tends not to be 
used in high-level competition.

It is not possible to produce "true" rotating-partner round robins for all
number of players. Following is a breakdown of how the rotating-parter round 
robin format has been modified in order to produce schedules for 4 through 26 
players. The format depends upon the number of players remaining
after dividing the total number of players by 4. If the number of players
is divisible by 4 then a "true" rotating-partner is possible and no 
modifications are needed.

* R = 1: Each round, the player not assigned to a game is given
  a bye.

* R = 2: Each round, the two players not assigned to a doubles game play a 
  one-versus-one game. Depending on the preference of the tournament 
  organizers, this could constitute full court singles, skinny-singles, 
  half-court dinking singles, or any other preferred one-versus-one format. 
  Alternatively, these two players could be
  assigned a bye.

* R = 3: Each round, the three players not assigned to a doubles game play a 
  one-versus-two game. Depending on the preference of the tournament 
  organizers, this could constitute cut-throat or any other two-versus-one 
  format. Alternatively, these three players could be
  assigned a bye.

FIXED-PARTNER ROUND ROBIN FORMAT

A fixed-partner round robin is the classic round-robin format where players
partner with the same player (i.e. they have "fixed" teams) throughout the 
tournament. This format ensures each team plays the same number of games and 
often a higher number of minimum games compared to other tournament
formats (e.g. only two games in double elimination format). If the number
of teams is odd then one team will be assigned a bye every round.

ROUND ROBIN TOURNAMENT SCHEDULES

The tournament schedules can be viewed in "narrow" and "wide" formats. The 
narrow format shows games sequentially in a list. This format is useful to
see a list of all the games in the tournament. If your venue doesn't have
the ideal number of courts available (see below) then this list can be used
to assign games to courts and to keep track of completed games. The wide 
format schedule shows all games in a table where rows are rounds and courts
are columns. This format also shows if a player/team has a bye.

The following information can be used to interpret the tournament schedules:

* GAMES: The number of games included in the schedule is explicitly
  included in the narrow format schedule under the "GAME" column. This is a
  unique listing of all the games included in the schedule. The "GAME" 
  column is not included in the wide format schedule, however, the 
  number of games can be calculated multiplying the number of rows and columns.

* ROUND: Several games are included within a round. All teams 
  (fixed-partner) or players (rotating-partner) will play during each 
  round, except for schedules with 7, 11, 15, 19 and 23 players/teams, 
  where one player/team will have a bye.

* COURTS: Ideally, the venue where the tournament is hosted will have at 
  least as many courts as there are games in a round. This allows all games 
  of each round to be played simultaneously. The number of games in each 
  round (i.e. the ideal number of courts available) is shown by the maximum
  number in the "COURT" column in the narrow format schedule, or by the
  largest C# in the first row in the wide format schedule. If your venue 
  doesn't have enough courts to accommodate the number of games within a round 
  then games can be assigned as soon as courts and players/teams become 
  available.

* TEAMS: The players/teams assigned to each court are shown in the "TEAM"
  column in the narrow format schedule and under the court columns (e.g. 
  "C1", "C2", "C3", etc.) in the wide format schedule. The team to the left
  of the ":" is the team that serves first.

* BYE: For schedules that require a bye (schedules with 7, 11, 15, 19 or 
  23 players/teams) the player/team with a bye is indicated in the wide format
  schedule.
